Commercial Kitchen Fulfillment Software

With commercial kitchens and people eating out more, kitchen software’s need to be improved to handle the steady incline in orders and increase the efficiency with less bugs being prone to happen.

Our team has decided to design and implement a kitchen software that will improve on already existing ideas. The design will be based on a scratch kitchen, meaning that everything is made the day of orders taken and are limited to how much the kitchen staff has prepped for that day. There is a main computer, for inputting orders and taking the amount prepped. 4 printers for the kitchen, grill, expo, sauté, and salad.
There will be the main computer that servers will log into with their specific id’s and enter orders. The main computer will also need to be able to take the input of the number of items prepped for the day by the kitchen staff, so the servers know when they run out of an item. The number of items prepped needs to be implemented before any server can take any orders. Servers should be able to send orders in simultaneously with no errors occurring. This might cause a race condition that should be expected and will need to be fixed. The main computer should also be able to store orders for check out later and be able to add new items to an already existing order when a customer wants a new item. There will also be different categories for all the food items within the main computer to keep it organized and to be able to find food items easily, reducing time spent of servers looking for a specific item. Ex: entrees, appetizers, desserts, drinks, etc. There will also be a section to add protein embellishments onto salads and pasta dishes. The main computer will also be the place that orders will be closed out and takes payments, either with card or cash. It should continue to store the orders until the server does their checkout for the night where they are able to pull all tips from the computers, which should automatically add them up, if they are card payments. Cash payments should also have an input so that change and tips can be inputted into the main computer then be automated.

With all printers in the kitchen, they do not need to have drinks on the tickets printed. This saves time on printing and saves paper, cost. Also, because we are printing out tickets, no actions need to be done software wise when tickets are completed and food is being sent out.

Starting with printer 1, the expo. This printer needs to receive all orders as they come, no exception. The reasoning behind this is that the expo is the last station that the food goes to and they need to know if the food is plated and made correctly.

Printer 2 will be the grill station. The grill station will get all orders as well excluding salads that do not have embellishments of proteins that go on the salad. This printer does include sauté, grill, and embellishments for salad. The grill is very similar to the expo printer except for the salads that don’t receive any proteins and desserts. (Expo should receive desserts because it gets everything.)
Printer 3 is sauté. This printer will need to receive all appetizers that the sauté works on. Ex: meatballs, brie (type of cheese), etc. This printer will also receive all pasta dishes, frier dishes, and the only things that it will receive from the grill is any dish with sides that go with the grill station. Ex: if the grill gets a dish that doesn’t need any side from the sauté, then the sauté shouldn’t receive the order on their ticket.

Printer 4 is the salad station. The salad station will only receive salads and desserts. The salads should include an embellishment, if it receives on, so that the station knows what type of protein goes onto the salad. They also receive desserts; you can call this printer dessert/salad station.
On all tickets, they should have the following information, which should be inputted by servers before sending on the main computer. Time, server name, number of people on that order, table number (this is just the table order that the servers have memorized for the restaurant layout), and the order itself. All embellishments should be directly under the item that it is supposed to go with and should also be indented for clarity. On the main computer there should also be an option to add modifications and custom prompts to be able to talk to the kitchen without having to go to the kitchen itself. This would include allergies or modifications to an order.

The main computer will also need to be able to take all worker ids, including kitchens, so that they can clock in and out of work. This will keep track of all workers coming in. When clocking in there shouldn’t be anything printed; however, when a worker clocks out it should show these items on a ticket at the main computer. The name of the worker, their clock in time, their clock out time, and the number of hours they worked that day. The number of hours they worked should be stored into a databased to be processed later by manager to set the payroll.
